# WSGMB
WSGMB is a computational framework that can classify diseased or healthy microbial co-occurrence networks. It treats microbial co-occurrence networks as weight signed graphs and uses a weight signed graph convolutional layer to aggregate the sign and weight information of edges in the graph. It identifies biomarkers in a microbial community that may be associated with a specific disease, providing targets for biological and clinical research. WSGMB consists of a combination of three main components, an inference module for constructing the microbial co-occurrence network, a classification module for classifying the co-occurrence networks, and an evaluation module for measuring node importance.
# Input data
WSGMB only supports binary outcome classification with healthy or diseased microbial co-occurrence networks as input. Before this, the user needs to obtain microbial abundance tables from various microbial databases at a specific level of biology classification, either the original OTU tables or the species abundance tables after going through the species databases.
# Building microbial co-occurrence networks
The [SparCC](https://journals.plos.org/ploscompbiol/article?id=10.1371/journal.pcbi.1002687) method was used to infer correlations between microbes, where we filtered the correlations using a truncation threshold, retaining only pairs of species with strong correlations. An example of the construction of a co-occurrence network using simulated and real data can be found in getNetwork.R.
# Weight signed graph classification
WSGMB performs graph-level classification on the co-occurring networks obtained from inference, and we design a convolutional layer specifically for weight signed graphs and refer to the graph classification architecture of [DGCNN](https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11782). We used the deep graph learning Python library [DGL](https://docs.dgl.ai/tutorials/blitz/index.html) for graph neural networks, as the basis for the entire code.
# Node importance calculation
We calculate the change in accuracy of graph classification results by breaking the connection between a node and its neighboring nodes. Applying the above operation to each node in the graph, those with large differences in importance between the healthy and diseased networks may be potential biomarkers.
